<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><title>Chapter 9. Zip</title><link href="../at4j_doc-1.1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" /><meta content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.77.1" name="generator" /><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="At4J Programmer's Guide" /><link rel="up" href="index.xhtml" title="At4J Programmer's Guide" /><link rel="prev" href="ch08.xhtml" title="Chapter 8. Tar" /><link rel="next" href="bi01.xhtml" title="Bibliography" /></head><body><div class="navheader"><table summary="Navigation header" width="100%"><tr><th align="center" colspan="3">Chapter 9. Zip</th></tr><tr><td align="left" width="20%"><a accesskey="p" href="ch08.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th align="center" width="60%"> </th><td align="right" width="20%"> <a accesskey="n" href="bi01.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr /></div><div class="chapter"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="chap_zip" />Chapter 9. Zip</h1></div></div></div><div class="toc"><p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p><dl><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#character_encoding_in_zip_files">Character encoding in Zip files</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#zip_features_not_supported_by_at4j">Significant Zip features not supported by At4J</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#reading_zip_archives">Reading Zip archives</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#extracting_from_zip_archives">Extracting from Zip archives</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#creating_zip_archives">Creating Zip archives</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#zip_add_support">Adding support for unsupported features</a></span></dt><dd><dl><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#zip_add_support_comp">Adding a new compression method</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#zip_add_support_external_fa">Adding a new external attribute type</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#zip_add_support_extra_field">Adding a new extra field type</a></span></dt></dl></dd><dt><span class="section"><a href="ch09.xhtml#standalone_zip_tools">Standalone Zip tools</a></span></dt></dl></div><p>The Zip file format was originally developed in 1989 by Phil Katz for the
company PKZIP. A Zip archive contains file and directory entries, where each file's
data is compressed individually. The archive contains a number of Zip entries
containing metadata on the entry and file data for file entries, followed by a
<span class="emphasis"><em>central directory</em></span> where some of the metadata for each
entry is repeated.</p><p>The Zip specification allows for several
different compression methods, even within the same Zip archive. The At4J
implementation supports the following:
</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem">Stored (uncompressed)</li><li class="listitem">Deflated (gzip compression)</li><li class="listitem">bzip2 compression</li><li class="listitem">LZMA compression</li></ul></div><p>
The Deflated and Stored methods are most common and are widely supported by Zip
software.
</p><p>Each Zip entry has a metadata record associated with it. It contains
data such as the entry's absolute location in the archive, its last modification
time, its <span class="emphasis"><em>external file attributes</em></span> and a comment. (See
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipEntry.html">ZipEntry</a>.) The format of the external file attributes is
configurable in order to be able to capture significant attributes from the file
system containing the files that were added to the archive. Unix external file
attributes, for instance, contains information on the entry's permission mode 
(same mode as the <code class="computeroutput">chmod</code> command), such as
<code class="computeroutput">0644</code> or <code class="computeroutput">0755</code>.</p><p>The entry metadata can be, and often is, extended using
<span class="emphasis"><em>extra fields</em></span> that contain metadata that does not fit into
the standard metadata record. This can for instance be timestamps
with a higher precision than the timestamps in the standard record.</p><p>The Zip archive itself can also have a comment. It is often printed by
the Zip program when the archive is being unzipped.</p><p>The Zip file format is specified in <a class="xref" href="bi01.xhtml#bib_pkware_appnote" title="PKWARE Zip application note">PKWARE Zip application note</a>
and in <a class="xref" href="bi01.xhtml#bib_infozip_appnote" title="Info-Zip's Zip application note">Info-Zip's Zip application note</a>. See also the
<a class="xref" href="bi01.xhtml#bib_wikipedia_article_on_zip" title="Wikipedia article on Zip">Wikipedia article on Zip</a>.</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="character_encoding_in_zip_files" />Character encoding in Zip files</h2></div></div></div><p>Neither PKWARE's nor Info-Zip's application notes specify which character
encoding to use for encoding text metadata. Windows (and DOS) programs use
Codepage 437 to encode file paths, and the platform's default charset 
(Codepage 1252 in Sweden, for instance) for other text metadata such as comments.
Unix programs use the platform's default charset (often UTF-8 or ISO-8859-1)
for all text data. The Unicode path extra field
(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.UnicodePathExtraField" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/UnicodePathExtraField.html">UnicodePathExtraField</a>) can be, but seldom is, used to store an
UTF-8-encoded version of an entry's path.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="zip_features_not_supported_by_at4j" />Significant Zip features not supported by At4J</h2></div></div></div><p>The following significant Zip features are not supported:
</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem">Adding symbolic links when building a Zip archive.</li><li class="listitem">Zip archives split over several archive files.</li><li class="listitem">Zip file signing.</li><li class="listitem">Zip file encryption.</li><li class="listitem">Some compression methods.</li><li class="listitem">Some entry external file attribute formats.</li><li class="listitem">Some entry extra fields.</li></ul></div></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="reading_zip_archives" />Reading Zip archives</h2></div></div></div><p>A Zip archive is read by creating a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> object on the
Zip file. The <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> object contains a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipEntry.html">ZipEntry</a> object
for each entry in the archive.

</p><div class="example"><a id="ex_reading_data_from_zip_archive" /><p class="title"><strong>Example 9.1. Reading data from a Zip archive</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">// Read data from the Zip file f

// The UTF-8 charset
<a class="apilink" title="java.nio.charset.Charset" href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/index.html?java/nio/charset/Charset.html">Charset</a> utf8 = <a class="apilink" title="java.nio.charset.Charset" href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/index.html?java/nio/charset/Charset.html">Charset</a>.forName("utf8");

// Create the Zip file object. Text and file paths in the Zip file are encoded
// in UTF-8
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> zf = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a>(f, utf8, utf8);
try
{
  // Print out the names of the child entries of the directory entry /d
  <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipDirectoryEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipDirectoryEntry.html">ZipDirectoryEntry</a> d = (<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipDirectoryEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipDirectoryEntry.html">ZipDirectoryEntry</a>) zf.get(new <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.el.AbsoluteLocation" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/el/AbsoluteLocation.html">AbsoluteLocation</a>("/d"));
  System.out.println("Contents of /d: " + d.getChildEntries().keySet());

  // Print out the contents of the file /d/f
  <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileEntry.html">ZipFileEntry</a> df = (<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileEntry.html">ZipFileEntry</a>) d.getChildEntries().get("f");
  
  // Use the EntityFS utility class <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.util.Files" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/util/Files.html">Files</a> to read the text in the file.
  System.out.println(<a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.util.Files" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/util/Files.html">Files</a>.readTextFile(df, utf8));
}
finally
{
  // Close the Zip archive to release all resources associated with it.
  zf.close();
}</pre></div></div><p><br class="example-break" /></p><p>External file attributes, compression method metadata and extra fields can
be accessed through <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipEntry.html">ZipEntry</a> objects. External file attributes are
represented by a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.ZipExternalFileAttributes" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/ZipExternalFileAttributes.html">ZipExternalFileAttributes</a>-implementing
object, compression method metadata by a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.comp.ZipEntryCompressionMethod" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/comp/ZipEntryCompressionMethod.html">ZipEntryCompressionMethod</a>
object and extra fields with a list of <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ZipEntryExtraField" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ZipEntryExtraField.html">ZipEntryExtraField</a> objects.
Each extra field is represented by two objects since it occurs both in the Zip
entry's metadata (the local header) and in the central directory at the end of
the Zip file. The <code class="computeroutput">isInLocalHeader</code> method of
an <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ZipEntryExtraField" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ZipEntryExtraField.html">ZipEntryExtraField</a> object can be used to
query it about where it got its data from – the local header or the central
directory.

</p><div class="example"><a id="ex_reading_metadata_from_zip_entry" /><p class="title"><strong>Example 9.2. Reading metadata from a Zip entry</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">// Create a Zip archive object for the archive in the file f
// The Zip file metadata is encoded using the UTF-8 charset.
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> zf = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a>(f, <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.support.nio.charset.Charsets" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/support/nio/charset/Charsets.html">Charsets</a>.UTF8, <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.support.nio.charset.Charsets" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/support/nio/charset/Charsets.html">Charsets</a>.UTF8);

// Print out the archive comment
System.out.println(zf.getComment());

// Get the file entry /f1
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileEntry.html">ZipFileEntry</a> zfe = (<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileEntry" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileEntry.html">ZipFileEntry</a>) zf.get(new <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.el.AbsoluteLocation" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/el/AbsoluteLocation.html">AbsoluteLocation</a>("/f1"));

// Print out its comment
System.out.println(zfe.getComment());

// Print out its compression method
System.out.println(zfe.getCompressionMethod().getName());

// Print out its Unix permissions mode
System.out.println(
  ((<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.UnixExternalFileAttributes" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/UnixExternalFileAttributes.html">UnixExternalFileAttributes</a>) zfe.getExternalFileAttributes()).
    getEntityMode());

// Print out the value of the last modification time from the extended timestamp
// extra field from the local file header. Format the data using a
// <a class="apilink" title="java.text.SimpleDateFormat" href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/index.html?java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html">SimpleDateFormat</a> object.
System.out.println(
  new <a class="apilink" title="java.text.SimpleDateFormat" href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/index.html?java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html">SimpleDateFormat</a>("yyyyMMdd").format(
    zfe.getExtraField(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ExtendedTimestampExtraField" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ExtendedTimestampExtraField.html">ExtendedTimestampExtraField</a>.class, true).
      getLastModified()));</pre></div></div><p><br class="example-break" /></p><p>The <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> object uses a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileParser" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileParser.html">ZipFileParser</a> object
to parse the contents of the Zip file. It has a few extension points where
additional functionality can be plugged in. See <a class="xref" href="ch09.xhtml#zip_add_support" title="Adding support for unsupported features">the section called “Adding support for unsupported features”</a>
below.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="extracting_from_zip_archives" />Extracting from Zip archives</h2></div></div></div><p>Zip entries can be extracted using the <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.util.archive.ArchiveExtractor" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/util/archive/ArchiveExtractor.html">ArchiveExtractor</a>.
There is no custom extractor for Zip archives.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="creating_zip_archives" />Creating Zip archives</h2></div></div></div><p>A Zip archive is created using a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a> object.
It is configured with a <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilderSettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilderSettings.html">ZipBuilderSettings</a> object.</p><p>Each added entry is configured with a 
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a> object. It contains properties for the
compression method to use, for the extra fields to add, for the entry comment
and for how the external file attributes should be represented. The builder uses
the strategy described in <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#entry_metadata" title="Determining the metadata for an entry">the section called “Determining the metadata for an entry”</a> to arrive at the
effective settings for each entry.</p><p>Below is an example that shows how a Zip archive is built using a
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>.

</p><div class="example"><a id="ex_build_zip" /><p class="title"><strong>Example 9.3. Building a Zip archive</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">// Build the Zip file "myArchive.zip" in the directory targetDir.
<a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.RandomlyAccessibleFile" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/RandomlyAccessibleFile.html">RandomlyAccessibleFile</a> zipFile = <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.util.Directories" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/util/Directories.html">Directories</a>.newFile(targetDir, "myArchive.zip");

// Configure the global Zip builder settings.

// Create a factory object for the external attributes metadata
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory.html">ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory</a> extAttrsFactory =
  new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory.html">UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory</a>(
    //
    // Set files to be world readable
    <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.entityattrs.unix.UnixEntityMode" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/entityattrs/unix/UnixEntityMode.html">UnixEntityMode</a>.forCode(0644),
    //
    // Set directories to be world executable
    <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.entityattrs.unix.UnixEntityMode" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/entityattrs/unix/UnixEntityMode.html">UnixEntityMode</a>.forCode(0755));

<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilderSettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilderSettings.html">ZipBuilderSettings</a> settings = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilderSettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilderSettings.html">ZipBuilderSettings</a>().
  //
  // Set the default file entry settings.
  setDefaultFileEntrySettings(
    new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a>().
      //
      // Use bzip2 compression for files entries.
      // NOTE: bzip2 is not supported by all Zip implementations!
      setCompressionMethod(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.comp.BZip2CompressionMethod" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/comp/BZip2CompressionMethod.html">BZip2CompressionMethod</a>.INSTANCE).
      //
      // Use the external attributes factory created above
      setExternalFileAttributesFactory(extAttrsFactory).
      //
      // Add an extra field factory for creating the Unicode path extra field
      // that stores the entry's path name encoded in UTF-8.
      addExtraFieldFactory(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory.html">UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory</a>.INSTANCE)).
  //
  // Set the default directory entry settings.
  setDefaultDirectoryEntrySettings(
    new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a>().
      //
      // Use the external attributes factory created above.
      setExternalFileAttributesFactory(extAttrsFactory).
      //
      // An extra field factory for creating the Unicode path extra field.
      addExtraFieldFactory(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory.html">UnicodePathExtraFieldFactory</a>.INSTANCE)).
  //
  // Set a Zip file comment.
  setFileComment("This is myArchive.zip's comment.");

// Create the Zip builder
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a> zb = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>(zipFile, settings);

// Add a global rule that says that all script files (files ending with .sh)
// should be world executable.
zb.addRule(
  new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.archive.builder.ArchiveEntrySettingsRule" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/archive/builder/ArchiveEntrySettingsRule.html">ArchiveEntrySettingsRule</a>&lt;<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a>&gt;(
    new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a>().
      //
      // This object only has to contain the difference between the default file
      // settings and the settings for this rule due to the way in which
      // settings are combined.
      setExternalFileAttributesFactory(
        new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory.html">UnixExternalFileAttributesFactory</a>(
          //
          // Files are world executable.
          <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.entityattrs.unix.UnixEntityMode" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/entityattrs/unix/UnixEntityMode.html">UnixEntityMode</a>.forCode(0755),
          //
          // Directories are world executable. (No directories will be matched
          // by the rule's filter, though.)
          <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.entityattrs.unix.UnixEntityMode" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/entityattrs/unix/UnixEntityMode.html">UnixEntityMode</a>.forCode(0755))),
    //
    // The filter that determines which entries the rule will be applied to.
    <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.archive.builder.FileETAF" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/archive/builder/FileETAF.html">FileETAF</a>.FILTER.and(
      new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.archive.builder.NameGlobETAF" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/archive/builder/NameGlobETAF.html">NameGlobETAF</a>("*.sh"))));

// Add the directory hierarchy under the directory src to the location /source
// in the archive.
zb.addRecursively(src, new <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.el.AbsoluteLocation" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/el/AbsoluteLocation.html">AbsoluteLocation</a>("/source"));

// Close the builder to finish writing the archive.
zb.close();</pre></div></div><p><br class="example-break" /></p><p>The shortcut method <code class="computeroutput">setCompressionLevel</code>
on the <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a> object can be used for setting the
default compression level for files without having to create a new
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.comp.ZipEntryCompressionMethod" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/comp/ZipEntryCompressionMethod.html">ZipEntryCompressionMethod</a> object.

</p><div class="example"><a id="ex_build_zip_and_set_compression_level" /><p class="title"><strong>Example 9.4. Build a Zip archive and set the compression level</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">// Build the Zip file "myArchive.zip" in the directory targetDir. Use the best
// possible (deflate) compression.
<a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.RandomlyAccessibleFile" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/RandomlyAccessibleFile.html">RandomlyAccessibleFile</a> zipFile = <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.util.Directories" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/util/Directories.html">Directories</a>.newFile(targetDir, "myArchive.zip");

// Configure the global Zip builder settings.

<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilderSettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilderSettings.html">ZipBuilderSettings</a> settings = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilderSettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilderSettings.html">ZipBuilderSettings</a>().
  //
  // Set maximum compression level for the default file compression method
  // (deflate)
  setCompressionLevel(<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.comp.CompressionLevel" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/comp/CompressionLevel.html">CompressionLevel</a>.BEST);

// Create the Zip builder
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a> zb = new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>(zipFile, settings);

// Add the directory hierarchy under the directory src to the location /source
// in the archive.
zb.addRecursively(src, new <a class="apilink" title="org.entityfs.el.AbsoluteLocation" href="http://entityfs.sourceforge.net/releases/current/api/index.html?org/entityfs/el/AbsoluteLocation.html">AbsoluteLocation</a>("/source"));

// Close the builder to finish writing the archive.
zb.close();</pre></div></div><p><br class="example-break" /></p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="zip_add_support" />Adding support for unsupported features</h2></div></div></div><p>It is possible to plug in support for new extra field types, new
compression methods and new external attribute types in the
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> and <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a> objects.</p><p>Feature implementations will have to work with raw, binary data read from
and written to Zip files. They will probably find the number types in the
<code class="computeroutput">org.at4j.support.lang</code> package and perhaps the
utilities in the <code class="computeroutput">org.at4j.support.util</code> package
useful.</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="zip_add_support_comp" />Adding a new compression method</h3></div></div></div><p>This is how to make <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> understand a new compression 
method:
</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.comp.ZipEntryCompressionMethod" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/comp/ZipEntryCompressionMethod.html">ZipEntryCompressionMethod</a>
class.</li><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.comp.ZipEntryCompressionMethodFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/comp/ZipEntryCompressionMethodFactory.html">ZipEntryCompressionMethodFactory</a>
class.</li><li class="listitem">Create a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileParser" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileParser.html">ZipFileParser</a> instance.</li><li class="listitem">Register the new compression method factory in the Zip file parser's
compression method factory registry.</li></ol></div><p>To use the new compression method with the <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>,
use it with the <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a> objects for the
files that should be compressed using the new method, or with the default file
settings objects if all files should be compressed using it.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="zip_add_support_external_fa" />Adding a new external attribute type</h3></div></div></div><p>This is how to make <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> understand a new external
attribute type:
</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.ZipExternalFileAttributes" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/ZipExternalFileAttributes.html">ZipExternalFileAttributes</a>
class.</li><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.extattrs.ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/extattrs/ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory.html">ZipExternalFileAttributesFactory</a>
class.</li><li class="listitem">Create a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileParser" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileParser.html">ZipFileParser</a> instance.</li><li class="listitem">Register the new external attributes factory in the Zip file parser's
external attributes factory registry.</li></ol></div><p>To use the new external attributes object with the
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>, use the factory with the
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a> objects for the entries that should use
the new attributes, or with the default file and directory settings objects if
all entries should use them.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="zip_add_support_extra_field" />Adding a new extra field type</h3></div></div></div><p>This is how to make <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFile" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFile.html">ZipFile</a> understand a new extra field
type:
</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ZipEntryExtraField" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ZipEntryExtraField.html">ZipEntryExtraField</a> class.</li><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ZipEntryExtraFieldParser" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ZipEntryExtraFieldParser.html">ZipEntryExtraFieldParser</a> class.</li><li class="listitem">Create a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ZipFileParser" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ZipFileParser.html">ZipFileParser</a> instance.</li><li class="listitem">Register the new extra field parser in the Zip file parser's extra
field parser registry.</li></ol></div><p>This is how to add entries using the new extra fields to a
<a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipBuilder" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipBuilder.html">ZipBuilder</a>:
</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem">Implement a new <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.ef.ZipEntryExtraFieldFactory" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/ef/ZipEntryExtraFieldFactory.html">ZipEntryExtraFieldFactory</a> class.</li><li class="listitem">Use the new extra field factory with the <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.builder.ZipEntrySettings" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/builder/ZipEntrySettings.html">ZipEntrySettings</a>
for the entries that should have the new extra fields, or with the default
file and directory settings objects if all file and directory entries should have
them.</li></ol></div><p>
</p></div></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="standalone_zip_tools" />Standalone Zip tools</h2></div></div></div><p>The <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.prog.Zip" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/prog/Zip.html">Zip</a> and <a class="apilink" title="org.at4j.zip.prog.Unzip" href="../api/index.html?org/at4j/zip/prog/Unzip.html">Unzip</a> emulates the
behavior of the <code class="computeroutput">zip</code> and
<code class="computeroutput">unzip</code> commands.
See their API documentation for details on how to use them.</p></div></div><div class="navfooter"><hr /><table summary="Navigation footer" width="100%"><tr><td align="left" width="40%"><a accesskey="p" href="ch08.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td align="center" width="20%"> </td><td align="right" width="40%"> <a accesskey="n" href="bi01.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td valign="top" align="left" width="40%">Chapter 8. Tar </td><td align="center" width="20%"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td valign="top" align="right" width="40%"> Bibliography</td></tr></table></div></body></html>